1. My family member or friend prefers to fulfill his/her Sankalp hours instead of doing chores, or going to the movies with me.2. The best place in the house for my family member to practice is the bathroom.3. My family member or friend has inspired me to want to learn music from Mahesh Kale.4. The best place in the house for my family member to practice is the garage.5. My family member or friend thinks we cannot hear him/her/them when they are practicing, even with double insulated walls and floors.6. I can sing the bandish my family member or friend has been practicing just as good as them.7. My family member or friend sounds slightly better since Sankalp started.8. I can’t take my family member or friend anywhere because of their incessant humming.9. I feel like I am a part of the MKSM family.10. My family member or friend can practice anywhere they like.11. My family member or friend doesn’t know what is happening in world affairs anymore.12. My family member or friend will drop anything for MKSM.13. In the car, we only listen to MKSM class recordings.14. I don’t know why my family member shouts, “yes, I got it” while they are practicing!15. My family member or friend loves Mahesh Kale more than they love me.16. The best place in the house for my family member to practice is the car.17. I have never seen my family member or friend this happy.18. I feel like an insider - I know what GP Sankalp means!19. MKSM Guru Pournima is my family member’s or friend’s favorite day of the year20. My family member or friend often cannot hear me because he/she is wearing earbuds that I cannot see, so I end up talking to myself.21. I disturb my family member or friend while they are doing riyaaz at my own risk.22. My family member or friend gets up at the crack of dawn for Omkar.23. I love that my family member found music with MKSM to fill their heart.24. I have learned how to do Omkar from my family member or friend.25. My family member or friend falls asleep while doing Omkar.26. I fall asleep while my family member or friend does Omkar.27. My family member or friend stresses more about what color saree to wear than how they sound.28. My family member or friend picks out her saree two months before GP.29. I can’t seem to get my family member or friend’s bandish out of my head.30. On days when my family member or friend has class with Mahesh Kale, they practice extra hard.31. GP has become a household term.32. My family member’s showers are too long because I can hear them practicing there.33. My family member or friend drives us in the wrong direction while practicing in the car.34. My family member or friend misses our exit off of the freeway while practicing in the car.35. My family member doesn’t feed us the week before GP.36. My family member or friend will sing taans at random times.37. I can recognize an asthai alap.38. I need to ask my family member or friend to refrain from singing while shopping.39. I need to ask my family member or friend to refrain from singing while in the library.40. Two weeks before GP, music takes over our lives in every which way.41. I didn’t like Hindustani music before my family member or friend started lessons.42. I have started learning Hindustani Classical Music because of my family member or friend.43. My family member or friend will drop everything for their group practice.44. I can recognize a madhya lay alap.45. I am really proud of my family member or friend’s dedication to music.46. I love listening to my family member or friend sing.47. Students of MKSM are loving and joyful.48. I listen to more Hindustani classical music now because of my family member of friend who is part of MKSM.49. My family member or friend has several throat regimens before GP.50. My family member or friend cannot eat yogurt in the evening before GP.51. My house has a family member in each room singing a different raag.52. My family member asks me to stop singing my raag so they can sing theirs.53. My kids practice more music in MKSM than I do.54. I have been caught more than once making funny gestures while singing in my car by a fellow car driver.55. My family members have daily jugalbandi on correct sur during GP practice56. MKSM creates warmth & comfort around for all it’s community members.57. GP practices for all batches are worth listening.58. I can sing two other raga other than my own. 59. I sometimes sing my kid’s group raga instead of my own.60. Dinner is takeout during peak GP season61. Radio in the car has been replaced by class recordings62. I come to MKSM during GP even though I don’t learn music63. I will get withdrawal symptoms after GP64. Doctors appointments have been postponed after GP65. I remember the times when Maheshji taught us from a beach in Goa, from a boutique hotel in Paris, and from a farmhouse in Pune!66. We drink herbal concoctions for throat all the time67. No cold drinks or ice cream before GP for the whole family68. My family’s sankalp for music is inspiring.69. MKSM is like a second home. Cannot imagine life with Guruji and Purva.70. My family is more excited about GP than other religious festivals 71. Even though I don’t learn music, I am humming bandishes of all the batches I’ve heard during the day (not only my family member’s).72. I am not performing but plan for clothes and jewelry 2 months in advance.73. MKSM HQ is like a shaadi ka ghar starting 2 weekends prior to GP.74. I feel a void after GP is over. There is a certain vacuum.75. MKSM is a community close to my heart.76. 8 days prior to GP - One weekend before GP, other aspects of life (home, food, family, friends) come to a standstill. GP consumes us all.77. Hearing M’s voice a week before GP is comforting, reassuring that the Guru is here protecting us. 78. Hearing the sounds of practice - alaaps, taans, bandishes is meditation, prayer and brings one closer to the Divine. 79. Music is food for the soul especially GP time.80. Taking a day off on Monday after GP to recuperate from the euphoria, internalise all that we absorbed on GP day and plan for next year81. M&P have created this extended family/community that we are forever indebted for82. Even though I don’t learn at MKSM, I know the names of my favourite batches through attending GP for a few years83. My family member/ friend is more at Guruji’s house than their own house in the last week of GP84. I am happy that my little family member practices for Sankalp without me reminding her, a complete change:-)85. I know the names of at least 10 ragas through my family member/ friend learning at MKSM86. I know the start time for MKSM Bootcamp morning sessions and have heard a lot of stories about it. Btw, it’s 5:00 am sharp!! :P  87. My family member/ friend has learned to wake up without an alarm for Sankalp88. I know a lot of bollywood/ regional songs and which raag they are based on, courtesy my family member/ friends learning at MKSM89. I am already excited about next year’s Raag for our batch90. GP time at Guruji’s house is what I call true festive atmosphere! 91. I requested security if I can use first aid room in my office for my sankalp practice92. I used to look for heaven a lot but could not find it; then I came to MKSM and now I don’t bother looking for it.93. Once I heard my voice singing raag from upstairs bedroom, I was scared at first then I realized my bluetooth speaker is missing. 94. Yaar! These previous batch people they keep chatting after class and I always have to park at Karlstand drive.95. All TGIF is reprinted and Now they are called TGIM (Thank God I learn at MKSM)96. I love the month of September because my family member(s) will be busy practicing and I can have my own space and time to myself.97. I want to tell you the 3 things that GP is about: Music Music and Music98. I’ve heard a lot of stories from the MKSM Bootcamp! Me/my family member loves it and looks forward to it each year!99. I attended MKSM Sadhana and was awed by my fellow students awesome performances!100. MKSM and ICMA are synonymous to music for me!
